proofread:monitoring.md (#2494)
juicedata/juicefs: docs/en/administration/monitoring.md

# Monitoring and Data Visualization

> As a distributed file system hosting massive data storage, it is important for users to directly view the status changes of the entire system in terms of capacity, files, CPU load, disk IO, cache, etc. JuiceFS provides real-time status data externally through the Prometheus-oriented API to achieve the visualization of JuiceFS monitoring with ease, and you only need to expose it to your own Prometheus Server to visualize time series data with tools like Grafana.

Reviewer: JuiceFS provides real-time metrics through Prometheus compatible API, add it to your own Prometheus scrape jobs, and then you can create alerts or visualizations using tools like Grafana.

> As a distributed file system hosting massive data storage, it is important for users to directly view the status changes of the entire system in terms of capacity, files, CPU load, disk IO, cache, etc. JuiceFS provides real-time status data externally through the Prometheus-compatible API to achieve the vialization of JuiceFS monitoring with ease, and you only need to add it to your own Prometheus Server to scrape and store time series data with tools like Grafana.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As a distributed file system hosting massive data storage, it is important for users to directly view the status changes of the entire system in terms of capacity, files, CPU load, disk IO, cache, etc. JuiceFS provides real-time status data externally through the Prometheus-oriented API to achieve the visualization of JuiceFS monitoring with ease, and you only need to expose it to your own Prometheus Server to visualize time series data with tools like Grafana.
```
1. Prometheus-oriented 应该更准确些。一般如果一个监控 API 是针对 Prometheus 做的话，它不太可能同时兼容其他监控系统。
2. Add API to Prometheus server 听起来不大对头。按照 Prometheus 的工作原理，实际上是 JuiceFS 暴露了一个 metrics API 给 Prometheus。
3. Time series data 实际上并不是 grafana 抓取和存储的，而是 Prometheus 自己存储并且作为数据源提供给 Grafana 的。Grafana 只是一个数据可视化平台。

## Get started

It is assumed here that Prometheus Server, Grafana and JuiceFS clients are all running on the same host, in which

- **Prometheus Server**: Scrapes and stores the time series data of various metrics. For installation, please refer to the [official documentation](https://prometheus.io/docs/introduction/first_steps/).
- **Grafana**: Loads and visualizes the time series data from Prometheus. For installation, please refer to the [official documentation](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/installation/).

### Ⅰ. Access to real-time data

> JuiceFS outputs metrics data via a [Prometheus](https://prometheus.io)-type API. After the file system is mounted, the real-time monitoring data output from the client can be obtained by default address `http://localhost:9567/metrics`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
JuiceFS outputs metrics data via a [Prometheus](https://prometheus.io)-oriented API. After the file system is mounted, the real-time monitoring data output from the client can be obtained from the default address `http://localhost:9567/metrics`.
```

> JuiceFS outputs metrics data via a [Prometheus](https://prometheus.io)-oriented API. After the file system is mounted, the real-time monitoring data output from the client can be obtained from the default address `http://localhost:9567/metrics`.

Reviewer: change to:

JuiceFS outputs metrics data via [Prometheus](https://prometheus.io) compatible API.

or better, remove this sentence for good, infra folks all know prometheus and its metrics api

Reviewer 2: Here we can replace `obtain` with `retrieve` since the latter is more common used for something like logs, metrics, etc.

Reviewer: main thing here is to replace "prometheus oriented api", with prometheus compatible api or simply metrics api, developers all know this.

> Here we can replace obtain with retrieve

you'll find countless examples using both, no need to put too much focus on such details.

![](../images/prometheus-client-data.jpg)

### Ⅱ. Add API to Prometheus Server

> Edit the [configuration file](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/configuration/configuration) of Prometheus, add a new job and point it to the API address of JuiceFS, e.g.

Reviewer: Edit the [Prometheus configuration file](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/configuration/configuration), add a new job and point it to the API address of JuiceFS, e.g.

At the same time, the frequency of reporting metrics can be modified through the `juicefs.push-interval` configuration. The default is to report once every 10 seconds.

:::info
According to the suggestion of [Pushgateway official document](https://github.com/prometheus/pushgateway/blob/master/README.md#configure-the-pushgateway-as-a-target-to-scrape), it is required to set `honor_labels: true` in the Prometheus's [scrape configuration](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/configuration/configuration/#scrape_config).

It is important to note that the timestamp of the metrics scraped by Prometheus from Pushgateway is not the time when the JuiceFS Hadoop Java SDK reported it, but the time when it scraped. For details, please refer to [Pushgateway official document](https://github.com/prometheus/pushgateway/blob/master/README.md#about-timestamps).

> By default, Pushgateway will only save metrics in memory. If you need to persist metrics to disk, you can specify the file path for saving with the `--persistence.file` option and the frequency of saving to the file with the `--persistence.interval` option (by default, the metrics will be saved every 5 minutes).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By default, Pushgateway will only save metrics in memory. If you need to persist metrics to disk, you can specify the file path for saving by the `--persistence.file` option and the frequency of saving to the file with the `--persistence.interval` option (by default, the metrics will be saved every 5 minutes).
```

:::

:::note

> Each process using JuiceFS Hadoop Java SDK will have a unique metric, and Pushgateway will always remember all the collected metrics. This may cause the continuous accumulation of metrics and taking up too much memory, and it will also make Prometheus scraping metrics slow. Therefore, it is recommended to clean up metrics on Pushgateway regularly.

Reviewer: Accumulation of metrics might take up too much memory, and hurt scraping performance. Therefore, it is recommended to clean up metrics on Pushgateway regularly.

This feature needs to run JuiceFS client version 1.0.0 and above.
:::

> JuiceFS support to use Consul as registration center for metrics API. The default Consul address is `127.0.0.1:8500`. You could customize the address through `--consul` option, e.g.:

Reviewer: JuiceFS can use Consul as monitoring service discovery. The default Consul address is `127.0.0.1:8500`, customize it using `--consul`, e.g.:

Author: > 

which can be customized using ...?

Reviewer: 这一类细节怎么写都可以的, 主要是想将关于 consul 的说法改成 service discovery, 这也是更优开发者辨识/认同度的说法.

Reviewer: 我通常追求尽量缩短篇幅, 同时保持符合阅读习惯以及句式多样性. 不过我们文档大体上也不追求在这种事情上也保持统一, 大可以按照自己喜欢的写法来操作就好.
